README.md, before:

### Build and run (on linux)
#### Install java-11-openjdk-devel
- Download it: [java](https://adoptium.net/download?link=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fadoptium%2Ftemurin11-binaries%2Freleases%2Fdownload%2Fjdk-11.0.29%252B7%2FOpenJDK11U-jdk_x64_linux_hotspot_11.0.29_7.tar.gz&vendor=Adoptium)
- then ```tar -xf <downloaded_archive>``` and add all files in bin/ to PATH env variable
- check if ```java -version``` and ```javac -version``` print correct version (11.x.x)
#### Install dependencies for frontend (npm should be installed already)
```sh
cd frontend/
npm i
```
#### Build and run the whole project
```sh
./run.sh  # in root directory of the project
```
#### Then go to ```http://localhost:8080/``` in a browser
### Populate iceberg with sample data
- download spark: [spark](https://www.apache.org/dyn/closer.lua/spark/spark-3.5.7/spark-3.5.7-bin-hadoop3-scala2.13.tgz) (first link at the top)
- then ```tar -xf <downloaded_archive>``` (make sure that the result is in ~/Downloads/)
- then see ```spark.sh``` script in ```app/``` to see how to run spark (or you may edit that script as you like and then run it). this script performs some operations that is creates new snapshots so that we will see new diffs

Commit message:

fix(global): fix scripts for creating snapshots and backend/frontend inconsistencies

README.md, after:

### Build and run (on linux)
#### Install java-11-openjdk-devel
- Download it: [java](https://adoptium.net/download?link=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fadoptium%2Ftemurin11-binaries%2Freleases%2Fdownload%2Fjdk-11.0.29%252B7%2FOpenJDK11U-jdk_x64_linux_hotspot_11.0.29_7.tar.gz&vendor=Adoptium)
- then ```tar -xf <downloaded_archive>``` and add all files in bin/ to PATH env variable
- check if ```java -version``` and ```javac -version``` print correct version (11.x.x)
#### Install dependencies for frontend (npm should be installed already)
```sh
cd frontend/
npm i
```
#### Populate iceberg with sample data (create some snapshots)
- download spark: [spark](https://www.apache.org/dyn/closer.lua/spark/spark-3.5.7/spark-3.5.7-bin-hadoop3-scala2.13.tgz) (first link at the top)
- then ```tar -xf <downloaded_archive>``` (make sure that the result is in ~/Downloads/)
- run ```create_snapshots.sh``` script in ```app/```
- feel free to edit ```create_snapshots.sh```, ```script1.sh```, ```script2.sh```, ...
#### Build and run the whole project
```sh
./run.sh  # in root directory of the project
```
#### Then go to ```http://localhost:8080/``` in a browser

--------------------------------

### (OPTIONAL) Testing API manually
*Server endpoints are*
- ```/``` is a root page (frontend static files server by a static spring boot server)
- ```/api/snapshots``` returns a list of all available snapshots (TODO: add filtering)
- ```/api/diffs``` returns a list of all diffs (data changes) between snapshots (TODO: add filtering)
If we have ```n > 0``` snapshots that there will be ```n-1``` diffs (data/snapshot changes)

#### Testing API with ```curl```
```sh
curl curl http://localhost:8080/api/snapshots
```
```sh
curl curl http://localhost:8080/api/diffs
```
